Hello everyone and welcome to the
advanced dictionaries lecture.
Unlike some of the other data structures
we worked with, a lot of the useful methods
available to us in dictionaries have actually
have already been explored throughout this course.
We're just gonna touch on a few methods
for dictionaries in this lecture
and also dictionary comprehensions.
Let's go ahead and get started with the live code.
As always the Jupyter Notebook's available
for you if you wanna check it out as well.
Let's start by creating a very simple dictionary.
We'll just have two keys.
K1 with a value of one and we'll also have
K2 with a value of two.
Okay, so here's a dictionary D
and what we're gonna do is use that later on.
So that's just to remind you for the syntax
of a dictionary.
If you remember from the list comprehension lecture,
we were able to construct lists using list comprehension.
So just like list comprehensions, dictionary data types
also support their own version of comprehension.
It's not super common to use it as much
as list comprehension, but let's go ahead
and still learn the syntax for it.
So we'll start with a pair of brackets
and then what you do is you define the key
and then the value in the same colon notation
you would for a normal dictionary,
and then you write whatever conditions you want.
So in this case, what I'm gonna do,
is say have the key be X
and the value be X squared
for X in range zero up to 10.
So if you noticed we've actually been able
to create a dictionary through
this dictionary comprehension.
Another question that might come up is:
what if you wanna assign keys that are not based
on the values?
Well you could use zip in a manner like so:
so I can say, zip, maybe pass in a list,
here I'll just write a short list so I don't
have to write too much.
And then zip it, let me close off that string,
with a range, let's just do range of two here,
and then we'll do [two-pole] [im-pack-ings] so we'll say,
key value
value squared key, and looks like I accidentally
forgot parentheses there.
And there you have it.
So again, this really isn't as common
as list comprehensions.
List comprehensions you'll see all the time.
Dictionary comprehensions it becomes hard to read,
especially if you're trying to assign key names
that are not based off values.
So, it's good that you're aware of it
but I wouldn't have it be your go-to
throughout your coding.
But who knows if it's called for and it makes sense,
go for it.
All right, so next up we're just gonna review
iteration over keys, values and items.
So dictionaries can be iterated using their iter methods.
If you're using Python 2 so I can say,
for K in D dot iter, and you have iteritems,
itervalues, iterkeys.
So here we have our iteritems.
Let's just go ahead and see what that looks like.
Print, we'll say K.
And notice iteritems actually returns two poles
of both the keys and the values.
We can also do just the values.
And there we have it.
And we can also do just the keys.
And there you have that.
You can also use view methods to view the items,
keys and values.
If you're using Python 2 you can say,
you can actually grab all delete it and just say,
D dot view items.
That's the function, so you have to close it off.
And it'll show you this object that's a view items,
and then we can also say view keys.
And then you probably guessed already,
you can say view values.
And there you have that.
So that's really all the other methods that
are in dictionaries.
So we haven't covered or seen throughout this course.
So I wouldn't say dictionary comprehensions
are super common,
and depending which Python version you use,
iteration over keys may be different for you.
If you're using Python 3, you won't have to worry
about the generation issues.
And as far as view items,
if you have a large dictionary,
you're gonna wanna be careful calling this
because you may just get a huge output.
All right.
Well that's it for the advanced dictionaries lecture.
You should have been pretty familiar with some
of these already.
And we'll go ahead and stop the lecture here.
As always you can check out the Jupyter Notebook
for some more examples.
Thank you everyone.
I'll see you at the next lecture.